Welcome to Berea Temple, International Church's podcast.
I am your host, Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
Today, we're fortunate to have our beloved pastor, Mike Gonzalez, with us, who will be sharing God's Word.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So we come down to the close of our series or our regular series for the year.
And so I want to do something a little bit different, not different to us in general, but just specific to our format.
I want to take just a moment and pray before we go into our word.
So Father, we thank you for all that you have done this year.
for every message that has been given, for every song that has been sung, for every praise that has been lifted, for every crying of our heart that has been made at these altars.
Father, we ask that you would help us to move on from this series of messages to be unified in you, Father, that we are a church who knows who we are,
and what we are and why we exist.
Father, may we be good neighbors.
May we be a church that offers hope and healing to a city that is crying out for you.
They don't realize that they're crying out for you, but they are crying out for you nonetheless.
Father, would you use us to be a catalyst?
Would you use us to be a mouthpiece?
Would you use us to be hands?
Would you use us to be feet?
Because Father, you have created us for community.
So may you be with this final message in our series.
We thank you and we praise you.
It is in the name of Jesus we pray.
Amen.
Well, we have been through a series of messages.
We have worked on We Are this year, being We Are AG church members who offer hope and healing to our community.
We do that ultimately by being good neighbors.
I hope that you have found something in the last nine months or so, 10 months of messages about being good neighbors, about being a church, about being a community, knowing who we are, what we are, why we are, and hopefully where we are going into this next season.
We want to be a church.
that matters.
We want to be a church that has influence again.
We want to be a church of substance, a church of opportunity, not only to our physical neighbors, but the neighbors that are represented by each member of our church.
And so we are going to wrap up this series this way.
is that we are good neighbors who are ultimately better together.
I know we've heard that.
I know for some of us that we've heard it in politics.
We've heard it in community.
We've heard it in all these different areas.
But the reality is this is a biblical concept.
We were created for community.
We live in a world where doing things solo is often celebrated.
We hear terms like self-made, independent, pulling yourself up by your bootstraps.
And we hear these phrases, and they're very often celebrated in particular in men.
Well, you just get knocked down, you pick yourself up, you brush it off, and keep moving on.
And very often, dads, our sons, and how do we teach them this?
Well, if they fall down and skin their knee, well, pick yourself up.
There ain't nothing to cry about, blah, blah, blah, whatever we want to call it.
But we teach independence.
And while there is value in personal effort, the truth is, is that some of the most beautiful things in life happen when we come together, when we're joined together.
What would a symphony sound like if there was only
the trombones or my instrument, the tuba.
I'm the one who played the bomb, bomb, bomb, bomb, much like the bass drum.
What would a symphony sound like if you only had the one instrument?
What would a sports team look like if there was only one player?
How would your favorite football team, how would they look if they only have the goalie or they only have the forward and there was nobody back guarding the goal?
My favorite, what would a potluck look like if only one person brought food?
And they only brought their normal, like, they didn't bring enough for everybody.
They brought just their one, you know, grandma's sweet potato casserole.
And that's all that was, you know, we're gonna have a Thanksgiving dinner.
And all that's on the table, on the food table is the one bowl of sweet potato casserole.
And they didn't even bring the little marshmallows to put on top of it.
But beyond,
just these little practical examples.
Lest you think I'm just picking at something that is ethereal or secular or physical, this moves into the realm of the spiritual as well.
This is a scriptural, a biblical principle.
God designed us to live, work, and grow together, not in isolation.
He didn't tell Adam,
Well, it's good for you to be alone, but I'm also going to make this other thing, this woman.
And I'm going to send her to a different part and she's going to do her own thing and you're going to do your own thing.
He said, no, it's not good for him to be alone.
I'm going to make you a help meet.
We see this in the early church.
and the way that they operated.
They sold everything and they came together and they did life together.
They didn't just worship and pray together.
They shared resources.
They supported one another and they live as a true community.
The early church knew that we were better together.
In our book, again, we're loosely basing these messages out of a book called The Art of Neighboring.
And there is a story that they share about a man named Eric Whitaker and creating a virtual choir.
Is anybody familiar with this?
Shake your head.
Yeah.
No.
Okay.
Well, that's good because I'm going to introduce you to it.
If you're not familiar with it, Eric invited people.
This was kind of a long time, even before COVID, but then especially during the COVID shutdown, he invited people from around the world to join him in singing.
Each person recorded their own part.
So think about our worship team up here and they were all at their own homes and they recorded just their part.
And then he put it all together.
And when he put all those parts and all those pieces, all those voices, Sopranos and Altos and Baritones and Tenors and all of them put together in the right way just like a regular choir would.
That sound was beautiful.
It was breathtaking.
There was this beautiful harmony of voices from all corners of the globe.
There were people from all kinds of different countries.
Each voice was beautiful all by itself.
But when he put them all together in a single unified voice, the choir,
Something pretty extraordinary took place.
If we can make sure the volume on the computer is up, please.
We'll go ahead and start that over.
These are people that weren't ever together in the same room.
But they knew where they're part and they knew where they fit, where their voice fit in the grand choir.
That goes on for quite a bit longer.
It's about a 10 minute video of just that song.
I wanted to share just a snippet, a minute of it.
But see, as believers, we're called to be that kind of choir, that kind of team, that kind of community, so that when we come into this place, or when we walk out of this place, our voices are in unison.
Our voices are carrying the message of the gospel.
And when somebody walks in or somebody hears us, they don't hear an individual voice speaking something different or speaking something contrary to what the body of believers here is doing, what God is doing.
They hear a single unified voice that directs them, that points them, that calls them to Jesus.
We are called to love and to serve our neighbors, not alone but in partnership
together, you look around and there are people from all over.
There are people from different parts of town, different parts of the world, different parts of the city, whatever it may be, we have different socioeconomic statuses, we have different cultures and backgrounds, yet we all speak Jesus.
Imagine what it would look like if we joined forces with those around us.
not just our friends, our family, the people that we like, not just the people that are like us, but if we joined with not just even our church family, but what would happen if we joined together with our actual neighbors, our community?
Even people we don't know very well.
We talked about knocking.
Hey, we've lived as neighbors for the last five years and I don't know you very well, but
Just think of the impact that we could make.
And all of a sudden you find out that neighbor next door, they're a Christian, they're a believer.
And God's placed two embassies right next, remember we talked about that last week, embassies that each one of us are placed in our homes as an embassy to a neighbor.
And he's placed two embassies next door to each other so that they can work together because you're both ambassadors of the kingdom of heaven.
And he said, you know what?
This is a neighborhood.
I need more.
I need more than just one.
I need a couple.
I need three or four or I need five and I need
them to come together and work and find unity and work in a common direction so that this neighborhood can finally be pierced.
The darkness that overshadows this neighborhood can finally be broken and the light of Jesus can be shine not from the church building but from your own home.
And it shines up in the love and light of Jesus permeates your neighborhood.
What kind of impact could we make?
So as we close out this series, I want us to explore how God calls us to love our neighbor through unity, through partnership, and to see how we can join together to show His love in a way that is greater than we could ever do it alone.
Probably one of the greatest mistakes
that I see the common modern church doing.
And as much as I love technology, if you know me, I'm a technology guy, I love it.
And I think there's lots of ways we can use it for the church.
But one way that I think technology is hindering the church is it's aiding in our worst and biggest mistake.
And that's isolation, separation.
COVID didn't do us any favors.
Each one of us feels like we have to do life alone.
Each one of us feels like nobody else understands what's going on.
Each one of us feel like we have to be able to do life by ourselves.
If we were to share the struggle, the trial, the praise, the joy, the success, oh, if I tell people that I got a raise and I'm making a bunch more money now, they're going to start asking me for stuff.
If I tell people that I got laid off,
And I don't know how we're going to get through next week, much less today.
They're going to pity me and I don't want people's pity.
I'm a man.
I stand on my own two feet.
I do my own thing.
And what we do is we effectively cut off the body of Christ.
We literally sever ourselves
from what is supposed to be the body.
And we amputate ourselves from that.
Here's how I can tell you how I see this.
And I'm not stepping on anybody's toes.
It happens and it's okay.
One of the ways I know this happens is because in three years as your pastor, do you know how many hospital calls I've taken?
all of about two.
You know how many times I know people have been in the hospital?
A whole lot more than that.
My job is to be here for you, to just, even, I'm not a doctor, I'm not gonna go heal you unless God wants to heal you through prayer.
And I believe he can do that, amen.
But to be there for you, to pray with you, to show you that we are a church family,
but I've gotten all of about two phone calls to say, Hey, I'm in the hospital.
Would you come and pray with me?
And so I want us to see how we are better together as the body of Christ moving forward.
The first way we're going to do that is we're going to look at how at the power of partnership.
The power of partnership.
If you have your Bibles, Ecclesiastes chapter four and verse nine is where we're gonna start.
Ecclesiastes chapter four and verse nine.
I want us to look at what the scripture tells us in this passage.
It says that there are two people are better off than one, for they can help each other succeed.
If one person falls, the other can reach out and help, but someone who falls alone is in real trouble.
Likewise, two people laying close together can keep each other warm, but how can one be warm alone?
A person standing alone can be attacked and defeated, but two can stand back to back and conquer.
Three are even better for a triple braided cord is not easily broken.
Brother Chris, will you come up here?
I'm gonna pick on you for just a second.
You're a leader, right?
He didn't know I was going to do this, but I'm just going to, I want to illustrate.
You don't have to do anything fancy.
I promise.
And I'm not going to embarrass you.
Come up here for just a sec.
Just stand right here facing that way.
If there's two of us standing back to back and somebody's coming.
If he sees somebody coming from his direction, what can he do?
Hey pastor, somebody's coming.
Chris, somebody's coming up from behind me.
Turn around.
Hey, look out.
This is the word paraclete in the Bible.
It's comforter, but it also is this image that the Holy Spirit comes and stands with us.
But sometimes we need a physical person.
We need that connection.
We need the person.
Thank you.
You can go sit down.
Was that hard?
Give him a hand.
If you're old like me, you remember a show called Charlie's Angels, okay?
Their picture, the way they lined up, the one girl in the middle and the other two back to back and they were holding their guns and all that stuff, silly.
That's the picture that we have from our passage.
As goofy as the illustration is, I wanted to put a physical image in front of us.
Because see, this passage is very often read and I do it in weddings, but it applies to every relationship in our lives, especially in our communities.
Partnership multiplies our efforts.
It provides strength and resilience and support that we could never achieve alone.
To have brother Chris watching my back is the most invaluable thing that I can have as another brother in Christ.
Of course, I'm not negating the Holy Spirit or Jesus, but the physical person.
See, when we compliment each other's gift, when we're better together, we compliment each other.
God has uniquely gifted each one of us and these gifts are meant to work together to serve His kingdom.
Just like the orchestra, just like the church choir, each instrument contributes to a different sound.
We each bring something valuable to our and distinct to our community.
So let me take you back.
We're doing retro worship.
Well, when I was a kid, we didn't have all these instruments in my church.
What was over here, folks who were from the older church ages?
Sister?
The organ.
And what was over here?
And what are both of those?
They're the keyboard instruments, right?
There was no guitar.
Heaven forbid, the elders turn over in their grave if a guitar was on the stage.
There was definitely none of these.
The drum set.
We were all going to the you know where place.
but worship has immensely progressed and the sound is immensely more beautiful and fuller.
Why?
Because we've added in a guitar and bongos and we have the keyboard still and we have drums and we have a bass guitar and some churches have saxophone players and clarinet players and the breadth and depth of worship has grown immensely
Because those instruments, while solo, each one is beautiful, but brought them together with a song leader who knows how to mix those sounds together.
Worship is immensely better.
See, alone we may be able to do some good, but together our impact is extraordinarily greater.
Let's illustrate it this way.
Imagine trying to build a house all by yourself.
You might be able to figure out a few parts.
You might be able to know how to do the framing or you might understand how to do the painting.
That's great.
That's only one piece.
But you'd struggle with everything else.
But then imagine that you
know how to bring in a contractor and a plumber and an electrician.
And each one takes their skills that they already know how to do.
And they bring them together.
And then all of the sudden something that would have taken you forever to figure out because you don't know how to do, all of the sudden becomes a beautiful home that you're proud to live in.
Think about the gifts that you bring to the table.
Maybe you're great at organizing events or maybe you're a good listener.
Perhaps you have the skills in cooking or fixing things or simply making people feel welcome.
All of these gifts are essential.
And when combined with others, they help create a neighborhood or might I say a church where everybody feels valued and loved.
When we talk about being better together, when we talk about the power of partnership, we are stronger together in times of difficulty.
When things are difficult, Ecclesiastes, our passage, reminds us that if one person fails, another can help them up.
When we live in isolation, we're left to handle all of life's challenges on our own.
Might I again tell you the biggest reason I see
of how I know the church is failing in this area is simply the number of cases of mental health issues, even within the body of Christ.
Because people feel like they have to do it by themselves.
They haven't built a support network around themselves.
They've alienated themselves, they've separate.
Well, he doesn't look like me, smell like me, act like me, talk like me, taste like me, whatever.
And so we all separate out.
Thank you for catching that, sister.
Each one of us has an opportunity to be better together.
Look at Galatians chapter two, I'm sorry.
Galatians chapter six and verse two, let's not get tongue tight.
We're familiar with the passage.
Share each other's burdens and in this way obey the law of Christ.
Share each other's burdens and in this way obey the general idea of what Jesus might be teaching.
No, of course not.
It says the law of Christ.
When we build community together, we create a support system that lifts us up in our lowest moments.
We're able to bury each other's burdens just like our passage states.
We fulfill the law of Christ.
Think about the storms that just happened over on the East Coast.
how much devastation, people losing their homes, people can't get out of the area because all of the roads have completely collapsed.
Yet whether they're believers or not, the neighbors, the community, the community at large came together.
There was a story of a man and a son who simply said, you know what?
I don't know who does this, but I have a helicopter.
Come on, kid, let's go.
And they were taking their time off.
And on Saturday, he was taking his helicopter and he was flying up and he was going up onto the mountain where people were stuck.
And he was landing and going, come on, get on.
I can only take one at a time.
But it is what it is.
Let's do it.
And he would take them down and he would pick them and take them down.
And he did that until some other things came in and we won't go into all of that.
If you know the story, you already know the story.
But the community came together.
What if we saw our neighbors as a support system, not just a collection of houses?
What if we knew that in times of need, we could count on each other when we actively build connections, we offer support?
We're not only strengthening our community, but we're also creating an environment where people experience God's love in a tangible way.
Because if we're being a good neighbor,
We're being the hands and feet of Jesus.
And that is the biggest evangelistic effort you can make.
It's great to ask somebody where they're going to go when they die.
But it's even better to show them the love of Jesus in a tangible practical way.
Second thing when we talk about being better together is that working together amplifies our impact for your note taker.
This is point number two.
Let's look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12, yeah, chapter 12 versus 12 through 27.
1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 12 through 27.
The human body has many parts, but the many parts make up one whole body.
So it is with the body of Christ.
Some of us are Jews.
Some of us, some are Gentiles.
Some are slaves and some are free.
But we all have been baptized into one body by one spirit, and we all share the same spirit.
Yes, the body has many different parts.
not just one part.
If the foot says, I'm not part of the body because I'm not a hand, that doesn't make it any less part of the body.
And if the ears say, I'm not part of the body because I'm not an eye,
Would that make it any less part of the body?
If the whole body were an eye, how would you hear?
Or if your whole body were an ear, how would you smell anything?
Our bodies have many parts and God has put each part just where he wants it.
How strange a body would be if it had only one part.
Yes, there are many parts, but only one body.
The eye can never say to the hand, I don't need you.
The head can't say to the feet, I don't need you.
In fact, some parts of the body seem weakest and least important are actually the most necessary.
And the parts we regard as less honorable are those we clothe with the greatest care.
So we carefully protect those parts that should not be seen.
the more honorable parts do not require this special care so God has put the body together such that extra honor and care are given to those parts that have less dignity.
This makes for harmony among the members so that all the members care for each other.
If one part suffers all the parts suffer with it and if one part is honored all the parts are glad.
All of you together are the our Christ's body and each of you is part of
of it.
Each part has a unique role, but together we form the unified whole.
This isn't limited just to the church building.
We talk a lot, and I know I've spent a lot of time
on this particular illustration about the church, the body at the corner of Compton and Russell standing up.
And each one of us are a part of that.
Each one of us fulfills a piece of that.
And I still stand by that.
That is absolutely still true.
But it moves beyond even just that.
It moves on into and extends into how we interact with our neighbors.
When we join forces, we amplify the impact of our efforts in ways that we couldn't accomplish on our own.
Again, if we're talking about our home being an embassy for the kingdom of heaven, we by ourselves may not be able to make an impact in our neighborhood.
But if we join with the other embassies that God has already placed, all of the sudden it's not just one, but it is that strand of three cords.
You see small acts become powerful when they are done together.
Often we underestimate the power of the small little things.
A lone act of kindness might seem minor or insignificant, but when multiplied across the community, these acts become a powerful wave of change.
When everybody in the neighborhood contributes, whether by checking on each other, sharing meals, or offering help with small tasks,
these actions accumulate and create a culture of caring and compassion.
Have you ever noticed in your neighborhood, all the houses kind of look the same, especially if you moved into like a planned community where all the houses are exactly the same.
And then all of a sudden somebody paints their house.
And it's like, maybe my house not look as nice as it did before everybody painted.
Or they paint their house blue and it's like, oh, wow, that's really pretty.
And your wife's like, hey, why don't we paint our house blue?
That's really pretty.
So guess what you're doing Saturday.
Yeah, man.
All of a sudden, that one act affects another neighbor.
Well, now two of you have blue houses.
And then another guy's like, I'm not painting my house blue, but you know, painting the house isn't bad.
I'm going to paint my house hot pink.
I'm picking the worst colors on purpose.
Then all of a sudden three, four, five, six houses in your neighborhood have fresh coats of paint.
The same thing can happen.
when we talk about being, Jesus' hands and feet, when we talk about showing compassion and love and creating an environment that is creating a culture of caring and compassion.
All of a sudden you go over, we talked about this last week, hey, I noticed a bunch of newspapers.
Oh, I just forgot to subscribe.
We don't read the news.
We started doing it online.
Okay, I just wanted you to know I was thinking about you.
That's all.
Have a great day.
Hey, I heard that you were sick.
I wanted to bring over a crock of soup.
This is my mom's chicken noodle soup.
And man, every time I was sick, this made me feel better.
So here it is.
And you know what?
I don't even need the crock back.
I got it especially for you.
And all of a sudden, that neighbor's like, hey, you know what?
I don't make soup like her mom did, but I can make cookies.
I can make, I don't know, pumpkin bread.
I made pumpkin bread this last couple of weeks ago and it was really good, so that was why it was on my mind.
Think back to that virtual choir.
Each individual voice contributed something beautiful, but it was when they were all put together that the music really became something extraordinary.
In the same way, a single act, a single moment of kindness,
It's beautiful.
But a community coming together with the same goal can create something truly transformative.
One of the things that I loved about the video, and I know on our screens it's a little bit hard to have seen it, but one of the little circles of the singers was actually a deaf person and they were signing.
So obviously they weren't making an audible
noise to be mixed in, but they were signing the words.
And that was included because again, it's a beautiful language.
So think about ways that you can contribute small acts of kindness to your neighbors.
Maybe it's something as simple again as saying hello or offering to help carry the groceries, leaving a note of encouragement.
And imagine if we all did this consistently,
How might our individual neighborhoods change?
And if we're making a change in our individual neighborhoods, how might South City change?
And how might the city of St. Louis change?
All because you decided to, what we talked about a couple of weeks ago, step out.
Get over the fear.
Get over the nervousness.
and to begin to be Jesus to your neighborhood, to be an ambassador.
Because these partnerships create opportunities for all kinds of greater service.
Look at what Ecclesiastes chapter four and verse nine says.
It says, again, two people are better off than one for they can help each other succeed.
It's as simple as that.
It's how a community garden works.
If you go down the street,
Let me get my bearings here.
If you go down the street right over here a little bit, there's a corner and it's just a community garden.
Somebody said, hey, we should do this.
And somebody else said, yeah, that's a good idea.
I'll bring some seed while I've got watering cans.
Well, I've got, I know, I have, and they began to plant.
And guess what's there now?
There's a beautiful garden that's all flourishing and there's vegetables for people to come that are part of it.
And it's a source of produce.
It's a source of life to the neighbors.
If somebody in our neighborhood would come and partner with us, maybe we organize a block party or small community pantry, or we even plan an event to clean up the local park.
We're coming together and we're creating something that is alive, something that is the hands and feet, something that supplies life to the neighborhood.
Why?
Because Jesus is the way.
Jesus is the life.
Finally, when we talk about being better together, when we talk about unity, when we talk about this kind of coming together,
This reflects God's heart.
John chapter 17 verses 20 through 23 says, I'm praying not only for these disciples, but also for all who will ever believe.
Who is that?
That's us.
Ever believe in me through their message.
I pray that they will all be one just as you and I are one, as you are in me, Father, and I am in you, and may they be in us so that the world will believe you sent me.
I have given them the glory you gave me so they may be one as we are one.
I am in them and you are in me.
May they experience such perfect unity that the world will know that you sent me and that you love them as much as you love me.
May they experience such perfect unity that the world
will know that you sent me.
Why does the world doubt the deity of Jesus Christ today?
Because for most of us, we have become islands in and of ourselves.
We have become isolated.
We have separated.
And we've got to bring the body of Christ back together.
See, Jesus is praying
for his followers to be unified.
It's not just a practical strategy, it's a reflection of God's heart.
When we come together in love and purpose, we demonstrate to the world the very nature of God.
Unity among believers and even with our neighbors becomes a testimony that points others to him.
Our unity testifies to God's love.
Think about a lighthouse.
You guys all know what lighthouses are.
They sit out on the edge of the bays and there's usually some kind of rock outcropping or there might be a coral reef, something that needs to be seen by ships at night.
And so there's this big, I love lighthouses, but there's this big, beautiful lighthouse and it has this ginormous light.
And there's a lighthouse keeper and his job is to make sure that every night that light is lit and it shines and it usually just kind of spins around or depending on the city it might just go back and forth and so that they can see.
And that's helpful.
We know that lighthouses have been around for a very long time and they're extremely helpful in navigating the shoreline.
But think about what would happen if there was like
three of them, all next to each other, and they all shone out at the different spots where they needed to, so that as the ship was coming by, the entire area wasn't just a passing by and going, okay, there's some light, nope, nope, now there's some light, nope.
But they all shone in the same place, so that light could be seen and it would illuminate what they were doing.
Our lives can be that.
We talked about being embassies, but we could just as easily talk about being a lighthouse in our neighborhood because either your light is on or it's not.
Either your light is shining so bright that others are drawn to Jesus or your light is out.
and people are going by and their lives are being impacted by every rock, every challenge, every difficulty that is coming through and their lives are being destroyed.
And all they needed was the kingdom of God to stand up, the child of God, the embassy, the lighthouse to say, hey, I've got the light.
Is there a light on?
Where's our light off?
Do people know?
Are they drawn?
Has anybody ever come to your house?
There's something about your house.
There's something about you.
I need to know.
I am absolutely drawn to you.
There's something infectious about you.
I use that word on purpose.
I just, I need to know more.
Has anybody ever done that?
I would prefer to say no.
It's not a judgment against who you are or what kind of Christian you are.
But think about what it would be if you let your light so shine before men that people were drawn.
That all of a sudden you became a person of peace.
A person of peace is a person who brings people together, who helps with unity.
All of a sudden you became the person of peace in your neighborhood.
You're the person who brings unity.
Why?
Because unity invites God's blessing.
Psalm chapter 133 verses one through three, it says this, how wonderful and pleasant it is when brothers live together in harmony.
For harmony is as precious as the anointing oil that was poured over Aaron's head that ran down his beard and on to the border of his robe.
Harmony is as refreshing as the dew from Mount Hermon that falls on the mountains of Zion.
And there, the Lord has pronounced his blessing, even life everlasting.
When people live in unity, he commands his blessing.
If we're not seeing God's blessing in our lives, in our homes, in our church,
We might look and wonder and see what does unity look like?
And what do we need to do to foster unity, to bring unity?
Let's go back to our football team from earlier.
We know that just a goalie or just a forward can't happen.
But what does happen?
What would your team look like if everybody on the team did their own thing?
There's like, well, yeah, there's a ball.
But the forward, he's over counting blades of grass.
And the defensive back is all like, well, let me ponder the meaning of life.
But what does it look like when your team is on point?
Your team is completely focused, and everybody's working to the same goal.
Everybody's working and pushing and they are all focused on that one point, that other goal.
And they're passing the ball and it doesn't matter.
In the moment it doesn't matter who's the captain or who's the goalie or who's the forward or who's any other position.
They're all working and moving together towards that one goal.
And what might it look like for us in our neighborhoods, in our church,
when we're all working toward the same goal.
What are ways that we can promote unity?
Maybe it's reaching out to someone with whom you've had a disagreement, perhaps it's offering help to organize again the community events, or maybe when it's something else, there's all kinds of things.
But when we seek unity, we're seeking to create a space where God's blessing can flow.
and we're allowing His love to work in ways that impact not just the individual, not just me, but it works to impact our entire community, whether it is our neighborhood, our church, our family community, whatever it may be.
So as we close, becoming a community that reflects
Christ's love.
This is our goal.
When we talk about being, we are.
We want to be a community that reflects Christ's love.
Being a good neighbor isn't just about occasional acts of kindness.
It's about creating a community that mirrors the love and unity found
in God, in who He is, in the Trinity.
He is God the Father, He is God the Son, and He is God the Holy Spirit.
Jesus' prayer back when we looked at John 17, it wasn't just for His disciples.
Again, it was for us.
He prayed that we would be united so that the world would know God's love through us.
If we've got conflict with our neighbor in our neighborhood, or we've got conflict with our neighbor inside the church, or if we've got conflict with our neighbor in our family, it's going to be evident.
And again, people aren't going to want to be around that because each of us has a part to play in building this kind of community, partnering with others, working together and living in unity.
So as we go out today, as we end this grander series of we are, although we are going to go into our holiday kind of messages and time, we are still going to continue on with we are.
Our next part of this is we're thankful.
I know that was amazing, right?
I am such the master of words.
But we're going to end this bigger grander phrase that we've been building for the year.
I want us to go out and I want us to ask ourselves, how can we be part of the movement of unity?
How can we connect with those around us in ways that reveal Christ's love?
Because again, the way we're going to grow this church is not through me.
I could be the greatest orator in all the world, but if we're not unified, we won't grow.
You could be the greatest congregation to ever be known, but if we're not in unity, we won't grow.
So how do we do that?
Maybe it starts with something as simple as learning a neighbor's name or offering a helping hand or gathering people together for some kind of shared purpose.
Whatever it looks like, remember that God has placed each of us exactly where we are for a reason.
You are an embassy, your home, and you are the ambassador.
We are his ambassador for the kingdom of heaven.
I want to look at one last passage.
John chapter 13 verse 35 says, your love for one another will prove to the world that you're my disciples.
You want people to believe that Berea temple is a place that houses the Holy spirit.
Our love for each other is what's going to speak that over anything else.
It doesn't matter what programs we have.
It doesn't matter what pattern of worship we follow.
It doesn't matter if our walls are white, green, black, brown, hot, pink, or blue.
It matters what's inside of me and you.
They'll know that we are his disciples because of how we love each other.
So let's make it our mission to live this out, not just in words, but in actions.
Because when we come together in love, we're doing more than just being good neighbors.
We're showing the world what God's family can and will look like.
I have said since the day I became your pastor, that if somebody wants to see what heaven is gonna look like, walk in those back doors.
There is a beautiful mix of people and cultures and backgrounds and statuses and everything else that you can imagine inside the four walls of this sanctuary.
Let's show them that.
Let's show them what heaven can be like.
So this week I wanna challenge you with, I've given you some challenges over this year.
I want to give you one final challenge.
I want to encourage each one of you to reach out to your neighbor.
One neighbor could be a conversation, an invitation to come to church or an offer of some kind of help.
Whatever it is, let it be a small step towards building unity and reflecting Christ's love.
Let's pray.
Father, I pray
that you would give us courage, that you would give us compassion, and you would grant us unity to become neighbors who truly make a difference in our neighborhood.
That we would come together in unity with other embassies, other believers in our neighborhood to speak Jesus over our neighbors, to show
what you are and who you are to be your hands and your feet.
Father, help us to become neighbors who care, who offer compassion, who offer hope and healing.
Help us be neighbors who make a difference, but not just a difference for different's sake.
but who make a difference because people's lives have changed because they've met Jesus.
Father, I ask this in the name of Jesus.
Amen and amen.
As we close our, as we close our final song with our final song today.
As always, we wanna leave the altars open.
If you need to pray, if you need prayer, somebody will be up here to pray with you.
Or if you would just like to find a place at one of the wooden altars or the steps to have a moment or two, maybe there's a neighbor that God brought to your mind immediately.
You know that there's somebody you're supposed to reach out to long ago.
And you just need to come and spend some time praying for them.
The altars are open as we sing and then we'll come back and say our final closing words.